Hello, freak bitches. Welcome back to civilization. Jamie kilsstein.
Hi.
<Laugh>.
Dude. Um, so a lot has changed since the last time we spoke. Yeah.
And, uh, for people who don't know, you used to be, uh, the host of,
or one of the co-hosts of citizen radio, like super progressive lefty podcast,
and you were a vegan, but now all Hells,
you made a stake with standhol all.
Hell's broken loose. <laugh> all. I don't know what's happening.
I don't know where I am. Yeah. I, I,
I remember I was thinking about like being back in the studio and, uh,
I never met Jamie before and I was like, all right,
everyone's being really nice to me.
I' literally feel like I'm like this isn't this isn't a trick.
Joe sent me very nice emails and I'm like, but I'm a very trickable guy. Uh,
and I came in and yeah, everyone's just lovely and nice. Uh,
yeah man, uh, a, a lot change. I went into hiding. Uh, I went into hid, hiding.
Well, what.
Happened? Because I only got like a peripheral story of like, what,
what went sideways. All right. So like some people girls accused you of, well.
Yeah, that this is, look, this is the worst time for me to be like,
you know what, now that everyone's talking about,
Weinstein's time for killsstein to make his return<laugh>.
Weinsteinilsstein dude, it's too similar.
I, I like wrotete. Yeah. It's like very like ju and predatory. Uh, when I wrote,
I wrote Stan hope, uh, when the wine scene thing happened, I was like, Hey man,
you wanna like push off this return? He's like, you're fine. Uh, yeah.
So here's what happened. So, uh, it kind of started where I was a comic, uh,
for years and, you know, as it got more progressive, um, it, it,
it got more into thatjudgmental territory. I, where,
you know,
I feel like I definitely became one of those people who would just be on Twitter
all day. And instead of sort of talking about real issues, it just becomes like,
who are we mad at that day? Right. Like who used the wrong word that day?
Who can we get fired that day? Yeah. And it's Twitter Mo stuff.
And it happens on the right. And it happens on the left. Um, and it's just like,
kind of just people who are sad, who just live like in their box,
which I was like one of them. Right.
That's why I think this is such an important conversation because,
because you've kind of stepped away from it and you see it for what it is.
I think people don't realize it when they're caught up in the swirl of it.
The momentum of it, that it's almost like a natural human behavior pattern.
It's very tribal.
Yeah. Well, it's tribal and it's, um, physically addictive.
Yeah. Um, you know,
like I've like gone back and forth with like drinking and,
and not drinking and pot and, and not smoking pot.
And I can tell you that the thing I was addicted to the most was Twitter.
It was refreshing Twitter. It was like,
you literally get dopamine hits from that. Yeah.
Like I remember when I first tried to get off Twitter, I like,
I was fighting with stranger, uh, in my living room on Twitter. And I was like,
you know what, this. I'm gonna go take a walk. I don't need, uh,
I don't need to be involved in this guy's life. I closed it.
And before I even knew it, I'm like walking in the park,
fighting with some other guy on my phone. And I'm like, it follows you. Yeah.
Like if someone's calling you a cut,
they're calling you a cut at dinner with your girlfriend,
they're calling you a cut when you go to like, uh, your brother's graduation.
And you're just like refreshing it. Yeah.
Waiting for someone to tell you that you're good. Um, and sort of,
so that I got addicted to that, um, more than anything.
And a SP actually, when I finally got an audience, um,
with like the left of left, um, I mean, just to be very clear, uh,
it's not like I'm gonna come on this show and suddenly like,
do a Sean Michael's heel turn and be like, I'm Johnny rap joke, those,
all had it coming. Um.
You're just being a person.
Well,
and that's what I like isn't doing for a very long time is I feel like I don't
wanna speak for people, but I feel like with me,
I always needed something to like, define me. Right, right. Where it's like,
I'm a progressive, or I'm a, I'm a vegan, or I'm just jujitsu and whatever I,
whatever I would become kind of currently obsessed with,
I would sort of like throw the other away and kind of like all over that. Um,
because you know, a lot of times I would feel like a failure.
Like that's really where the progressive, um, I mean,
I still hold a lot of progressive ideas, but that's when I went from comic to,
um, political.
It wasn't that I like wanted to make comedy. My,
my like, nemesis. Right. It was that, oh, I felt, I feel like I, I failed.
Um, you know, I dropped outta school to start, uh,
comedy at like 17 and I did the things you're supposed to do. Um,
and yeah, I did Montreal a couple times and, uh, Conan once, uh,
and I had this year where it seemed like things were gonna happen. And then,
you know, I was kind of that guy that people were like, oh, we like you,
we can kinda do anything with you, but we like you.
And so I started to kind of make my own audience and the audience was great.
It was like a bunch of, you know, when that show started,
it was a bunch of just weird, um,
sweet nerdy comedy fans.
And then everything just started getting pushed, uh, to,
to crazy though. Like when I knew,
I said this on Doug's podcast when I knew got nuts is when I was defending
a trans person. So already like a left issue, like I'm doing the right thing.
Right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and I called this transphoic guy an idiot,
and we get an email that said, uh, while we appreciate you using, uh,
defending trans P people, the word idiot is ableist. And I want it to be like,
you're retarded, you're a retarded kind. Explain.
Ableist for people. People ablelist able is making fun of people who,
I don't know.
Yeah. I don't know what it means anymore. I thought ableist was just like that.
Guy's in a wheelchair. him. Right. But I guess like all these different terms,
these everyday terms, I guess idiot is ableist. Cuz, I don't know,
there an idiot in a wheelchair.
No, no, no, no. It's ableist because if you are not an idiot,
if your brain works well, you're mocking someone whose brain doesn't work well,
they are not able to think. Correct. Oh, okay. So you're an ableist.
Joe, you just outgressiveed me.
Well, I'm pretty progressive. I know. Better or not. I mean, I, I,
I look like a meathead and I espouse some right wing ideas,
but when it comes to like social issues, I'm very.
Progressive. That's why we became friends.
You saw a gay rights thing I did on Twitter. Yeah. Like you weren't, that's why.
Um.
But I, but I, what I saw happening, I don't mean to interrupt you. No,
but what I saw happening with you and what I see happening just in general
online, you know, I mean, I was on citizens radio when you guys first started.
Yeah.
You were on our poster.
But I think there's something that happened where people around the time of
occupy wall street, things got really heated up. Yeah.
And people started moving way left and then some folks started moving way.
Right. And I really truly believe to this day,
the way left is what started the whole Trump movement.
It's in response to the way left. Yeah.
I think all these shitheads got together and they didn't like being
accused of being or ableists or rapists or whatever it is by the ultra
progressives. So they went far. Right. Yeah. And alt-right,
I mean, the,
the alt-right essentially was people who didn't identify with these old men who
were bankers <laugh>,
but they also didn't want to have anything to do with these ultra lefty
progressives that were calling everyone a racist, everyone rapist,
every man's a piece of. Oh.
I, I, I did all of that. Yeah. I straight up did all of that.
And I think one of the things with the,
the ultra left and maybe this is me like, uh, you know,
maybe this is me desperately trying to defend myself,
but I think in a weird way, it was harder for me.
And it's harder for a lot of people to see themselves slipping into the extreme
left. And so like,
what I mean by that is I never thought when I heard people say the extreme
right. Is as, is as bad as the extreme left, I was always like, you.
Because like the extreme left, isn't like, you know,
bombing Palestine being like, give us free healthcare.
Or like let trans people in the right bathroom. Like, you know, uh,
even that like, uh, this shooter, not in Vegas, but that DC shooter,
like he was like a crazy guy. He wasn't, uh ableless, I'm sorry.
He wasn't like shooting the politicians screaming, like, you know,
I mean he liked the Bernie Sanders page, but it wasn't like we are launching,
uh, wars against Islam for, uh, Christianity. It wasn't, um,
you know, uh, what we're doing this for, for free market capitalism.
It was to me, the extreme left when I heard people say it.
And the reason I would scoff when someone like you would say it is cuz I'm like,
dude, like the left should just be like, stand for like equality.
Everyone has the right to an education. Everyone has the right, um,
to not go hungry, um, to have health insurance, um,
gay people knew whatever they want with their. Um, the,
and by bag and vaginas and vaginas, um.
It really should be essentially like that on both sides. The, the right, what,
what being a conservative used to be was small government and people
having the government stay outta your lives and some, and they,
the others opposite. It's morphing.
Yeah, totally. Where it's like, we will stay outta your lives,
but we will be like in your, if you want a abortion, we'll uh,
tell you like who's Dick, you can.
Suck. Well, the abortion thing is where it gets real squirrely. Right?
Because the abortion thing is essentially, it's a religious thing.
And it's a, I just think it's, and it's a moral thing and it's,
it's also what is an abortion? I mean,
you are ending a life, but you're ending a life inside a woman's body. Well,
when is it okay to do that? Is it okay to do that at one day?
And does the, the grown woman's life matter more than the cells are more than.
Well, no, may. Yeah. That gets to a point. But initially it's like,
when is it defined as a life? I mean, if, if the moment of conception,
if that moment, if 30 seconds later it's an abortion, right?
Like if you could hold your breath and then the baby's dead, you know,
like if we found out that the moment of God comes in a moment,
if she could just hold her breath for a minute, that just goes die. Yeah.
I mean, is that, why does that sound worse? Be murdered <laugh> but,
but it is look, abortion is weird. Right' weird. And I's, I'm pro-choice. Yeah,
but abortion is weird because like, when you, when it gets older,
when you're four weeks in six weeks in and it's still legal and it's a little
baby, I mean, it is a little baby look, man,
you look at it it's it looks like a little baby.
Some times they have a heartbeat. If it gets to a certain age. Yeah.
What's going on. Like I, I'm not saying that it,
it should be my choice to define whether or not someone should do it or not do
it, but it's very disingenuous when people frame this argument as it's a woman's
right. To choose period. And that's what it is. It's not just that. Yeah.
It's also killing.
A baby. I don't know, man. Feminists don't like me anymore. So I'm like coat,
hang her up. I'm out of this debate. <laugh> I don't give a. Well, it's, it's.
A, it's a,
it should be an honest debate because it is a very controversial and a,
a very nuanced issue. So it's not as simple as, you know, the right.
Doesn't want a woman to choose and stay out of my body.
It's not just stay out of your body. It's like, what are we doing?
We're killing a baby. That's in a woman body at what age should.
That be legal? Well,
and I think that's the whole thing that we were talking about before with these
like echo chambers where, you know, for the first time ever,
I've been listening to sort of like both sides of issues.
Um.
First time ever. I mean the.
First time since recently. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Well,
because like you just Sur again, you, you, the majority of people like, yeah,
I'll totally fess up. Sure. Right.
Like I didn't ask a lot of follow up questions because your Facebook feed is
curated and your, your Twitter is all of your friends and,
and for the most part people you agree with and, you know,
comedy was actually comedy now.
Like I've been listening to like a ton of like backlogs of your shows cuz once I
was just like, oh it doesn't, maybe I can listen to the show again. Great.
I never hated you. No, I know. I know. I never hated you. And so, uh,
but I started listening to the show and like hearing pretty equal,
um, you know,
progressive to conservative ideals and comedy was always kind of this cool
place where you could explore ideas because comedy and jokes and
laughter would sort of take the, um, take the edge off a little bit,
you know what I mean? And you could actually talk about issues.
And once I kind of became part of that crew that would, um,
even on comedy, then it was like, well, I can watch democracy now.
And I guess that's it. Um, and I have my, and, and I would feel stupid.
I hung out with journalists. I didn't hang out with comics.
I hung out with people where I was sort of like,
felt like the joke monkey and like, um,
the high school dropout part of me would get really like,
what do you mean by you.
Felt like the joke monkey.
Did you feel like you had to be funny when you were around the, those.
People? Yeah, because,
because when I tried to say something like political or that I thought was
smart, it would just be kind of like, uh, uh, hushed. Cause I'm not that smart.
I'm not, I'm good at like telling stories. Um, I'm,
I'm good at like, I, I think listening and asking like decent questions, uh,
but I was never like a INEC. Um, and a lot of that crowd is,
um, and that's good. We need those people. Right. Um, but I would,
I, I, it, it was really easy for me to be like, just shut up,
you know what I mean? But is.
This all in your mind? I mean, you, you're a human being, right. I mean,
if you're just talking to these people, you're not an unintelligent person. No,
I think so.
Is this just an insecurity that you carried around with you when you were around
them? Holy.
Um, yeah, a lot. You were.
Venturing. The reason why I ask you this,
your show was sort of in a lot of ways, venturing into the world of journalism.
Oh. So that's where I was going. Uh that's right. That's where I was going,
like sort of way back, which was, um, you know, the,
the show, the show's started as a comedy show. Right. Um,
it was called drunken politics before it was called citizen radio. Um,
I think we changed it maybe around like occupy, um,
but it was comedy and like we had progressive ideas.
So that's sort of what we talked about, but it wasn't that we had to talk about,
it became this thing where any progressive issue in the news that day or on
Twitter, we had to, we had to talk about that day. Right. And, um,
it sort of lost, I don't know. Did you did it also? Sorry.
Sorry. No, please. Sorry. Interrupting here. But did it also, you,
you guys went to a, sort of a subscription service.
No, we actually, uh, didn't you? No, the thing I'm really proud of, uh,
about that show and, and, and why, uh, I'm definitely bummed out. I lost, um,
a lot of those fans or, or whatever was we, we started ages ago. We, uh,
we were pretty early on with podcasts and we never had commercials and we never
had, you didn't really get anything. If you paid, it was voluntary.
It was like a version of NPR where it was like, everybody gets to show for free.
Right. Is like us trying to be socialist. Everyone gets the show for free.
If you can't afford $5 a month, $10 a month, $50.
Right. But a lot of people do that way. I mean, Sam Harris does that. Totally.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. We just didn't really have, like,
we couldn't afford to send you like a tote bag or whatever, but yeah.
So it wasn't a pay model, everything we said anybody could hear. Right. Um,
we occasionally did like little, like goofy bonus shows for like subscribers.
But that was, was it that, that was the question. So some,
there was some shows that only people who subscribed could do. Yeah. Not a.
Most of it. Not a lot though. Yeah. And it was five days a week too. Right.
So it was a lot, that's another thing when you're doing a show,
five days a week, you gotta dig for things to be like off about, uh,
to not be redundant.
Yeah. I've done five day a week shows and, uh,
I don't think I'm at my best five days a week.
I think four days a week is where I like start to break down. Yeah.
Like anything after four days a week, unless I'm doing like fight companions,
which are just a goof, that's just hanging.
Out and like watching fights. That's easy. Yeah.
Um, you don't want to get stale little bored.
You don't want to force it into being a job.
And I think what I got outta you was that you were,
you were getting a lot of praise and you were, you were being hailed.
Like I saw Jezebel wrote something where they called you an,
a great example of an.
Ally. Well, that was pre this yearjeabbel <laugh>.
Yeah. But I mean, but that expression is a, is a very odd expression. I mean, I,
I hate to sound like this in disingenuous egalitarian,
but I really do believe this. I mean, we are, we should be allies to each other.
We all should be, we, this idea that like, there's a team war going on. Yeah.
And that Jamie kilseen is out there bucking for the females. Right.
<laugh> but that's what it's like, it's like, that's what they,
but they reward that. Yeah. See, this is the thing it's like some,
and this is not to single out Jezebel.
Cause I think they've got some great writers. Sure. It's, there's,
there's something that happens with people when you write a lot of
mean, uh, very critical stuff. And you,
you become this,
this attack machine and this is how you promote your ideas.
This is how you push your agenda by attacking people that some of them'em
deserve it. For sure. Some of themem are definitely,
but it becomes almost like the currency that.
You deal in. Yeah. And that goes back to the insecurity, right. By the way, uh,
my dad, well, but let me finish that. Oh.
Yeah. Sorry. Sorry. Is that when, when you're an attack machine like that,
and I'm not saying that jeabil is,
but there's a lot of the blogs that are attack machines when you're a attack
machine. And if you can be, uh,
an ally on the other side or not even on the other side,
but an ally to the attack machine, like, and then they single you out as that,
it gives you this feeling like, oh, I'm not going to get a attack act by them.
This is good.
And you reinforce that behavior by ramping up the types of things that you say
that they like yeah. That they appreciate.
And it becomes a sort of weird exchange. Yeah. Where, you know, it's like imply,
like, I think this is what a lot of what goes on in political circles as well.
Like there's not as much bribery as there is an understanding that if you
do what we want you to do and you say what we want you to do, then you're in,
then you're on the good side. Yeah.
And that goes back to that insecurity. And I think a lot of people, uh,
are insecure. I know. Well, I think we're all insecure. Yeah. Everyone is.
And when you do find that tribe yes. And you do find people who are going yeah.
And the, the more you attack on Twitter cuz not just blogs,
like remember like individuals on Twitter like me,
like when I would see like who's getting piled on today. Right. Uh, okay, cool.
This writer wrote something about mansplaing don't need to read the article.
What's a hash tag. That's the hashtag, I'm gonna say the meanest funny thing,
cuz I'm a comic and I'm funnier than journalists. And then, uh,
famous people are gonna retweet me or FA me.
And then I get to feel like a civil rights hero. Right.
Because that's what would happen where like I would literally tweet even if I
not even a joke,
even if I tweeted somebody sincere and this like sucks to admit, but even if I,
I tweeted like hashtag black lives matter, I'm refreshing that to be like,
dequis love, favored it. You know what I mean? Like I'm not doing it to be,
you know, and then you can feel good about yourself. Then you can go.
Not saying I did this,
but you can go on the street and you can ignore the homeless person and you can
cross the street when you see like the scary black guy, cuz you're just like,
well I'm technically the Rosa of parks of Twitter because I did that joke. Wow.
At that writer who said that thing that no one's gonna remember tomorrow,
but we were all angry about, um, today.